How to make recipe
preparation for dry chilli paneer:
1. pat dry 200 to 250 grams paneer first. then slice the paneer in cubes or rectangles. keep aside in a mixing bowl.
2. then peel and finely chop 1 inch ginger and 7 to 9 medium garlic cloves.
3. diagonally chop 3 to 4 green chilies. quarter 1 small to medium onion and remove all the layers.
4. slice 1 small to medium capsicum in squares. remove its seeds and pith (white part). keep the chopped veggies
aside.
marinating and pan frying paneer:
1. add 2 tbsp corn starch, 1/4 tsp red chili powder, 1/4 tsp black pepper powder and salt to the paneer cubes.
2. gently mix without the breaking the cubes. or else you can shake the bowl and toss the paneer with the dry
ingredients.
3. heat 2 tbsp oil in a non stick pan or a well seasoned pan. when the oil is medium hot, place the paneer cubes in
the pan.
4. when the base is slightly cooked, flip over and fry them. turn the paneer cubes gently and fry so that they are
uniformly golden. you can also deep fry the paneer cubes if you want.
(cottage cheese) ­ cubed
(also known as corn flour in india)
(lal mirch powder)
(kali mirch powder)
or any oil
quartered and separated in squares
cut in squares (shimla mirch)
finely chopped OR ½ tablespoon finely chopped ginger (adrak)
finely chopped OR ½ tablespoon finely chopped garlic (lahsun)
sliced vertically (hari mirch)
(lal mirch powder)
(kali mirch powder)
or add as required
chopped (optional)
6/5/2017 chilli paneer dry recipe, how to make dry chilli paneer recipe
http://www.vegrecipesofindia.com/chilli­paneer­dry­recipe/ 2/2
5. fry them till golden and crisp. do not fry for a long time as then they harden and become dense.
6. place the pan fried paneer cubes in a plate. keep aside.
7. whilst the paneer cubes are getting fried, in the same bowl, in which we marinated the paneer cubes, there will be
some leftover corn starch and spices. add 2 tbsp water to the bowl and mix well.
8. we will add this corn starch paste to give a glaze to the sauce.
9. in another small bowl, add 1 tbsp soy sauce, 1 tsp green chili sauce, 1 tsp sweet red chili sauce, ¼ tsp red chili
powder and ¼ tsp black pepper.
10. with a spoon mix all the three sauces very well.
making chilli paneer:
1. in the same pan, after we finish frying the paneer, add the finely chopped ginger­garlic and green chilies. stir.
2. then add the onion and capsicum squares. if using celery, you can add 1 tsp chopped celery at this step.
3. on a medium flame, stir fry till the edges of the onions and capsicum get cooked or become light browned.
4. add the mixed sauces.
5. then add little salt and sugar. go easy on the salt as the sauces already have a salt in them. stir very well.
6. now add the corn starch paste. stir again very well. do check the taste and add some soy sauce or chili sauces or
sugar or salt if required.
7. add the pan fried paneer cubes. stir and mix the paneer cubes with the rest of the sauce.
8. you can garnish chilli paneer with some coriander leaves or chopped celery or spring onion greens before
serving.
9. serve chili paneer hot. this spicy paneer dish tastes best when served hot
